---
layout: post
title: HTML & CSS Part 2
hosted: Hosted by Design at UCSD
time: Wednesday, Nov 30, 7:00-8:30pm
location: H&SS 1346
image: FA16_IntroHTML.png
published: true

excerpt: Knowing HTML and CSS can help you build great websites, though getting started with it may seem daunting at first. Join us at this hands-on workshop where we tackle the basics of HTML and CSS. Just bring your computer and your favorite text editor.
---
## Table of Contents

* TOC
{:toc}

## Getting Set Up

If you haven't already, make sure you understand the concepts from our [first tutorial](http://designatucsd.org/2016/11/16/intro-html-css.html)

Go ahead and grab the TODO - Link this: starter code here. You can hit download in the upper right corner, and then open `index.html` in your browser and in your favorite text editor.

We're going to be building a site that looks like [this](http://designatucsd.org/examples/envision/checkpoint3/), a dumbed down version of Invision's [site](https://www.invisionapp.com/). Let's pretend this is the 'mockup' that is given to us by the designer that we need to implement

## Thinking in HTML

Since we know what our end product should look like, we should break implementation down into different parts of the page. We can see there's a hero, a navigation bar and a bottom feature area with a left and right split.

To start near the top, the first thing we could do is build our hero. Let's break it down even further - think of the sections and elements you'll need to implement. Try figuring this out before reading the next section.

**Note**: In practice, it's important to gain this structural understanding of the mockup so you can understand and build your HTML in a logical manner.

### Breaking it Down - the Hero

Let's look through the hero and try to figure out different parts/elements and what you might need to implement them. You'll probably need a `div` to wrap the hero and another one for hero content, some `headers` for the two titles, and an anchor tag for the button. To style these, you'll need to add relevant class names for these elements.

Here's a basic bullet point visualization of how we might structure our html elements:

* `div` - **An outer div to wrap all of our hero.** Let's use class='hero'
  * `div` - **An inner div to wrap our text and buttons.** Let's use class='hero-content'
    * `h1` - **For our main header.** A class='title' sounds good
    * `h3` - **A smaller header.** A class='subtitle' sounds good
    * `a` - **Our anchor tag for our button.** Since it's a button, let's use class='button'

Put into code, it might look something like this:

```html
<div class="hero">
    <div class="hero-content">
        <h1 class="title">Design Better. Faster. Together</h1>
        <h3 class="subtitle">The world's leading prototyping, collaboration & workflow platform</h3>
        <a class="button">
            Get Started - Free Forever!
        </a>
    </div>
</div>
```

### Styling Hero


## Building the [name of the content section]

### Styilng

### How to split left and right
With inline-block

## Building the Navigation

### Different positioning types



I think this is all we need to get to, the rest can be stretch

### Routing to on-page IDs

## Mobile-Friendliness

### Media Queries

### What's Next?

